DESCRIPTION:

This software is intended for use by modellers who wish to experiment
with mixing paint (virtually) to match needed colours.  See section
USAGE below for more details.

STATUS:

This software is still under development and is only Beta standard at
this time.

REQUIREMENTS:

This software requires:
 - Python 2.7 or later
 - PyGTK2 2.24 or later
 - PyCairo 1.8.10 or later

INSTALLATION:

It is NOT necessary to install this software in order to use it.  All
that is necessary for the applications to be usable is for the base
directory to be in the user's PATH environment variable.

USAGE:

This software has a number of components:

1. The Mixer (mcmmtk_mixer.py) is a GUI that (once the user
has specified a colour to be matched and selected some paints for use)
enables the modeller to mix paints by specifying the number of "parts"
of each paint to be used in mixing a colour to match the specified
colour.  This mixed colour can then be saved to a list of mixed colours
(along with notes about its intended use).  When the modeller has
finished mixing the colours that they require they may print out a
report to be used as a reference while painting the model for which the
colours were mixed.

2. The Paint Series Editor (mcmmtk_editor.py) is a GUI that enables the
modeller create sets of paints for use in the mixer.
The recommended method is to produce a "sampler" of the actual paints
to be used on a suitable medium (preferably airbrushed), take a digital
photograph (or scan) and then cut and paste from that photograph into
the paint series editor where its buttons can be used to match the colour.
A Colour Sample Viewer is included as part of the editor. An example
colour sampler file has been added and should be loaded by the viewer
the first time it is launched (and after that it should remember the
last file used).
NB although manufacturer's digital colour charts can be used for a
sample source they are not necessarily accurate as they were NOT produced
with this use in mind and colours are frequently modified to accentuate
the difference between colours.
NB the provided sample is hand painted and should make it clear why an
air brushed version is preferred.

PAINT SERIES:

At this time, the only paint series data included in the distribution is
for an imaginary set of paints known as the "Ideal Paint Colours Series"
which features six colours equally spaced around the colour circle
(at maximim chroma) together with black and white. This series should be
automatically included in the mixer's "Paint Colour Series"->Open menu
when it is run for the first time.  Although of no real use in practice
this set of paints is useful for assessing the Mixer's potential and,
more importantly, learning how to mix paints.

INTERNATIONALIZATION:

The code is extensively hooked for i18n but (at the moment) there is no
localization available for languages other than English.

CHANGES:
    v-0.02:
        - adds target colour crosshairs to colour series selector wheels
    v-0.03:
        - adds mechanisms for entering target/paint colour as RGB values
        - adds mechanisms to make accidentally deleting paints harder
    v-0.04:
        - removes inappropriate cross coupling between Hue, Value and
          Chroma in the mixer's new mixd colour specifier and the editor's
          paint colour editor interfaces.
        - allows smaller/larger increments to be used when tweaking
          the colour in these interfaces by depressing the Control/Shift
          keys respectively while clicking the tweak buttons.
        - allows paint colours to be added to the mixer from the
          paint series selector's colour wheels via a right button
          popup menu.
        - allows colour details to be displayed from all colour wheels
          via a right button popup menu.
        - adds the ability to move wheels' graticules using mouse
          motion with the left button pressed. This is useful when
          zooming the wheel (via the existing mouse wheel mechanism)
          places the colours of interest out of view.
        - gives the user more mechanisms for changing the size and
          layout of windows.
        - saves size/layout changes and uses them next time either tool
          is reused.
        - replaces the mixer's primitive "load paint series data from a file"
          mechanism with a more sophisticated one where "known" paint
          series are offered for selection in its "Paint Colour Series"->Open
          menu.  New paint series can be made "known" by loading them from
          a file via the "Paint Colour Series"->Load menu item. Similarly,
          unwanted paint series may be removed via the
          "Paint Colour Series"->Remove menu item.  Once "known" paint
          series remain "known" between sessions provided the file
          containing their specification continues to exist.
        - increases the size of the mixer's paint spinners and adds
          the paints name to the label.

BUGS:

It would be greatly appreciated if any bugs encountered by users are
reported by creating an issue at:

<http://sourceforge.net/p/mcmmtk/tickets/>

FEATURE REQUESTS:

Feature requests can be made by creating an issue at:

<http://sourceforge.net/p/mcmmtk/tickets/>

or on the discussion list:

<https://sourceforge.net/p/mcmmtk/discussion/>
